EE

HTTP

http  - it's a protocol to communicate between client (browser) and server (container of servlets - tomcat...)
It is used for dynamic requests. Http transactions are either request or a response.
Transaction consists of 3 parts:
- a single request or response line.
request line consists of http method (usually GET or POST) followed by document address and the
HTTP version number being used. GET /contents.html HTTP/1.1 uses HTTP GET method to request the
document contents.html using HTTP version 1.1.. The response line contains HTTP status code that
indicates whether the request was successful (understood and satisfied) or if not, why not.
-  the HTTP headers - this is a set of fields used to exchange information between the client and the server.
For example, the following tells the server that the client will accept the ISO8859.5 and unicode 1.1
character sets:
Accept-Charset: iso-8859-5, unicode-1-1

The client uses the headers to tell the server about it's configuration and the document type
will accept. The server, in turn, uses the header to return information about the requested
document, such as it's age and location.

- the HTTP body. It is optionally used by the client to send any additional information (see POST method).
The server uses the body to return the requested document.

HTTP URL - universal resource locator URL (also known as URI) - are used on the WEB to identify
documents, images, downloadable files, services, electronic mailboxes and other resources.
It consists of protocol name (http://), host (ip address or domain name to access to), port -
(socket or service number) - to connect on the host. Default is 80 (the TCP/IP port), path -
is the path to the document  on the host.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


CORE

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PRINCIPLES OF OBJECT-ORIENTED PROGRAMMING

The main principles of object-orienting programming:

1. Inheritance
2. Incapsulation
3. Polimorphysm

Also the abstraction

One interface - many implementations. In java polimorthism includes
overriding, overloading. You should always use type of parent class in parameters
of method, return type of method, in object creation.
Also we may see polimorthism in generics. We may pass any subclass of generic type.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


THREADS

50 questions:
http://www.journaldev.com/1162/java-multi-threading-concurrency-interview-questions-with-answers#thread-safety


The base means for concurrency are is the java.lang.Thread class.
A Thread executes an object of type java.lang.Runnable

Runnable is an interface which defines the run() method. This method is called
by the Thread object and contains the work which should be done. Therefore the
"Runnable" is the task to perform. The Thread is the worker who is doing
this task.

Process is a separate unit of work. It cant interact directly with other processes.
It shares data only via operation system. There are situations when process is quite
free, but it can't share this free memory with other processes. Thread can do this.
Thread is a 'lightweight' process. By default java application runs in single process
- thread. But you can adjust the application in order to optimize the memory usage.
Threads can share objects between each other. Tasks are devided into small subtasks
and could be performed in parallel.

Threads have their own call stack, but can also access shared data.
Therefore you have two basic problems, visibility and access problems.

A visibility problem occurs if thread A reads shared data which is later changed
by thread B and thread A is unaware of this change.

An access problem can occur if several thread access and change the same shared data
at the same time. Java provides locks to protect certain parts of the code to be
executed by several threads at the same time. The simplest way of locking a certain
method or Java class is to define the method or class with the synchronized
keyword.

The synchronized keyword in Java ensures:

    that only a single thread can execute a block of code at the same time

    that each thread entering a synchronized block of code sees the effects
    of all previous modifications that were guarded by the same lock

Synchronization is necessary for mutually exclusive access to blocks of and for
reliable communication between threads.

You can use the synchronized keyword for the definition of a method.
This would ensure that only one thread can enter this method at the same time.
Another threads which are calling this method would wait until the first threads
leaves this method.

public synchronized void critical() {
  // some thread critical stuff
  // here
}


You can also use the synchronized keyword to protect blocks of code within a method.
This block is guarded by a key, which can be either a string or an object.
This key is called the lock. All code which is protected by the same lock
can only be executed by one thread at the same time.

Volatile

If a variable is declared with the volatile keyword then it is guaranteed that
any thread that reads the field will see the most recently written value.
The volatile keyword will not perform any mutual exclusive lock on the variable.
All fields are cached in thread. In order to get actual data
(directly from register of memory) we use volatile.

Atomic operation

An atomic operation is an operation which is performed as a single unit of work
without the possibility of interference from other operations.


 The i++ operation first reads the value which is currently stored in i
 (atomic operations) and then it adds one to it  (atomic operation).
 But between the read and the write the value of i might have changed.

Since Java 1.5 the java language provides atomic variables, e.g. AtomicInteger
or AtomicLong which provide methods like getAndDecrement(), getAndIncrement()
and getAndSet() which are atomic.

The Java memory model guarantees that each thread entering a synchronized block of
code sees the effects of all previous modifications that were guarded by the same lock.


For all mutable fields, e.g. Arrays, that are passed from the outside to the
class during the construction phase, the class needs to make a defensive-copy
of the elements to make sure that no other object from the outside still
can change the data


Defensive Copies

You must protect your classes from calling code. Assume that calling
code will do its best to change your data in  way you didn't expect it.
While this is especially true in case of immutable data it is also true
for non-immutable data which you still not expect that this data is
changed outside your class.

To protect your class against that you should copy data you receive and
only return copies of data to calling code.



Thread pools with the Executor Framework

Thread pools manage a pool of worker threads. The thread pools contains
a work queue which holds tasks waiting to get executed.

A thread pool can be described as a collection of Runnable objects (work queue)
and a connections of running threads.

These threads are constantly running and are checking the work query for new work.
If there is new work to be done they execute this Runnable. The Thread class itself
provides a method, e.g. execute(Runnable r) to add a new Runnable object
to the work queue.


Futures and Callables

 In case you expect your threads to return a computed result you can use
 java.util.concurrent.Callable.
 The Callable object allows to return values after completion.

The Callable object uses generics to define the type of object which is returned.


Deadlock

A concurrent application has the risk of a deadlock. A set of processes are
deadlocked if all processes are waiting for an event which another process
in the same set has to cause.

For example if thread A waits for a lock on object Z which thread B holds and
thread B waits for a lock on object Y which is hold be process A then these two
processes are locked and cannot continue in their processing.

When working with Threads, it’s also possible to change the priority of a Thread.
In the Java Virtual Machine, the Thread scheduler, use a priority-based scheduling.
So if a Thread enters in Runnable state with a higher priority
than the running Thread, the new Thread will run and the current running
thread will be returned to Runnable state and waits for its turn. But this
behavior is not guaranteed and is completely depending on the virtual machine
you are working on.
So, do not rely on thread priorities, just use them to improve efficiency of your program.

 If you don’t specify a priority, the used priority, will be the priority of
 the current Thread.
 With help of yield() static method you can give an opotunity to other threads to run.
 (you turn current thread to Runnable (waiting for run) state). Also if you don't
 set a priority, the priority of current thread will be set to new  thread.
 But in practise you don't have to rely on priorities. They really unpredictable.



 Thread lifecycle:

- !New! is the thread state for a thread which was created but has not yet started.
- !Ready!. Thread scheduling decides when the thread could actually start
- A thread in the !runnable! state is executing from the JVM point of view but in
fact it may be waiting for some resources from the operating system.
- !Timed waiting! is a thread state for a thread waiting with a specified waiting time.
A thread is in the timed waiting state due to calling one of the following methods with
a specified positive waiting time:


    Thread.sleep(sleeptime)
    Object.wait(timeout)
    Thread.join(timeout)
    LockSupport.parkNanos(timeout)
    LockSupport.parkUntil(timeout)

- A thread is in the !waiting! state due to the calling one of the following
methods without timeout:


    Object.wait()
    Thread.join()
    LockSupport.park()


Note, that thread in the waiting state is waiting for another thread to perform
a particular action. For example, a thread that has called Object.wait() on
an object is waiting for another thread to call Object.notify() or Object.notifyAll()
on that object.

- Thread is in the !blocked! state while waiting for the monitor lock to enter a
synchronized block or method or to reenter a synchronized block or method after
calling Object.wait().


Java provides three methods that threads can use to communicate with each other:
wait, notify, and notifyAll. These methods are defined for all Objects (not just Threads).
The idea is that a method called by a thread may need to wait for some condition to be
satisfied by another thread; in that case, it can call the wait method, which causes its
thread to wait until another thread calls notify or notifyAll.




Thread Methods:

- static sleep(long millis)

Causes the currently executing thread to sleep (temporarily cease
execution) for the specified number of milliseconds.
The thread does not lose ownership of any monitors.

- static yield()

A hint to the scheduler that the current thread is willing to yield
its current use of a processor. The scheduler is free to ignore this
hint.

- join(long millis)

/**
     * Waits at most {@code millis} milliseconds for this thread to
     * die. A timeout of {@code 0} means to wait forever.
     *
     * <p> This implementation uses a loop of {@code this.wait} calls
     * conditioned on {@code this.isAlive}.

     @throws  InterruptedException
          *          if any thread has interrupted the current thread. The
          *          <i>interrupted status</i> of the current thread is
          *          cleared when this exception is thrown.


- interrupt()
* Interrupts this thread.


From Object:

- wait()

tells the calling thread to give up the monitor and go to sleep until some
other thread enters the same monitor and calls notify( ).

- notify()

wakes up the first thread that called wait() on the same object.



A thread pool manages the pool of worker threads, it contains a queue that
keeps tasks waiting to get executed.
We can specify the number of threads that will be alive when we create
ThreadPoolExecutor instance and we can limit the size of thread pool and
create our own RejectedExecutionHandler implementation to handle the jobs
that can’t fit in the worker queue.




Callable interface.
java.util.concurrent.Callable interface in concurrency package that is similar
to Runnable interface but it can return any Object and able to throw Exception.
Callable interface use Generic to define the return type of Object.
Executors class provide useful methods to execute Callable in a thread pool.
Since callable tasks run in parallel, we have to wait for the returned Object.
Callable tasks return java.util.concurrent.Future object. Using Future we can
find out the status of the Callable task and get the returned Object.
It provides get() method that can wait for the Callable to finish and then
return the result.

Future provides cancel() method to cancel the associated Callable task.
There is an overloaded version of get() method where we can specify the
time to wait for the result, it’s useful to avoid current thread getting
blocked for longer time. There are isDone() and isCancelled() methods to
find out the current status of associated Callable task.

What if we want to override some of the methods of Future interface, for example
overriding get() method to timeout after some default time rather than waiting
indefinitely, in this case FutureTask class comes handy that is the base
implementation of Future interface.
FutureTask is base concrete implementation of Future interface and provides
asynchronous processing. It contains the methods to start and cancel a
task and also methods that can return the state of the FutureTask as whether
it’s completed or cancelled. We need a callable object to create a future
task and then we can use Java Thread Pool Executor to process these asynchronously.


Fork join framework.

ForkJoinPool - it's a wrapper for ExecutorService. The number of threads in pool could be changed. And
you don't have to shutdown completed pool, because all it's threads are deamons.


ForkJoinTask
This is an abstract class for creating tasks that run within a ForkJoinPool. The Recursiveaction and
RecursiveTask are the only two direct, known subclasses of ForkJoinTask. The only difference between
these two classes is that the RecursiveAction does not return a value while RecursiveTask does have a
return value and returns an object of specified type.
In both cases, you would need to implement the compute method in your subclass that performs the main
computation desired by the task.
The ForkJoinTask class provides several methods for checking the execution status of a task. The isDone()
method returns true if a task completes in any way. The isCompletedNormally() method returns true if a task
completes without cancellation or encountering an exception, and isCancelled() returns true if the task was
cancelled. Lastly, isCompletedabnormally() returns true if the task was either cancelled or encountered an
exception.



Difference between Fork/Join Framework And ExecutorService

The main difference between the Fork/Join and the Executor frameworks is the work-stealing algorithm.
Unlike the Executor framework, when a task is waiting for the finalization of the sub-tasks it has
created using the join operation, the thread that is executing that task (called worker thread )
looks for other tasks that have not been executed yet and begins its execution. By this way, the
threads take full advantage of their running time, thereby improving the performance of the application.




Some important interfaces and classes in Java Concurrency Lock API are:
-Lock
-Condition
-ReadWriteLock
-ReentrantLock: This is the most widely used implementation class of Lock interface.
This class implements the Lock interface in similar way as synchronized keyword.
Apart from Lock interface implementation, ReentrantLock contains some utility
methods to get the thread holding the lock, threads waiting to acquire the lock etc.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GENERICS

Generics work only with objects


How Generics work in Java
This is a popular Java Generics interview question which comes in my mind little late,
It didn't come when I first know about generics in Java but a while later, nevertheless
I find it quite useful to know about how generics work in java behind the scene.
The buzzing keyword is "Type Erasure", you guessed it right it’s the same thing we used
to in our schools for erasing our mistakes in writing or drawing :). Same thing is done
by Java compiler, when it sees code  written using Generics it completely erases that
code and convert it into raw type i.e. code without Generics. All type related information
is removed during erasing. So your ArrayList<Gold> becomes plain old ArrayList  prior
to JDK 1.5, formal type parameters e.g. <K, V> or <E> gets replaced by either Object
or Super Class of the Type. Also when the translated code is not type correct compiler
inserts a type casting operator. This all done behind the scene so you don't need to worry
about what important to us is that Java compiler guarantees type-safety and flag any
type-safety related error during compilation. In short Generics in Java is syntactic
sugar and doesn’t store any type related information at runtime. All type related
information is erased by Type Erasure, this was the main requirement while developing
Generics feature in order to reuse all Java code written without Generics.



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


EXCEPTIONS

Best practices you must consider and follow

Never swallow the exception in catch block
Declare the specific checked exceptions that your method can throw
Do not catch the Exception class rather catch specific sub classes
Never catch Throwable class
Always correctly wrap the exceptions in custom exceptions so that stack trace is not lost
Either log the exception or throw it but never do the both
Never throw any exception from finally block
Always catch only those exceptions that you can actually handle
Don't use printStackTrace() statement or similar methods
Use finally blocks instead of catch blocks if you are not going to handle exception
Remember "Throw early catch late" principle
Always clean up after handling the exception
Throw only relevant exception from a method
Never use exceptions for flow control in your program
Validate user input to catch adverse conditions very early in request processing
Always include all information about an exception in single log message
Pass all relevant information to exceptions to make them informative as much as possible
Always terminate the thread which it is interrupted
Use template methods for repeated try-catch
Document all exceptions in your application in javadoc

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

COLLECTIONS

Iterator fail-safe property work with the clone of underlying collection, hence it’s not affected by any modification
in the collection. By design, all the collection classes in java.util package are fail-fast whereas collection classes
in java.util.concurrent are fail-safe. Fail-fast iterators throw ConcurrentModificationException whereas fail-safe
iterator never throws ConcurrentModificationException. Check this post for CopyOnWriteArrayList Example.


What is difference between Comparable and Comparator interface?

Comparable and Comparator interfaces are used to sort collection or array of objects.Comparable interface is
used to provide the natural sorting of objects and we can use it to provide sorting based on single logic.
Comparator interface is used to provide different algorithms for sorting and we can chose the comparator we
want to use to sort the given collection of objects.


While passing a Collection as argument to a function, how can we make sure the function will not be able to modify it?

We can create a read-only collection using Collections.unmodifiableCollection(Collection c) method before passing it
as argument, this will make sure that any operation to change the collection will throw UnsupportedOperationException.


How can we create a synchronized collection from given collection?

We can use Collections.synchronizedCollection(Collection c) to get a synchronized (thread-safe) collection backed by
the specified collection.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HASHCODE and EQUALS

    If o1.equals(o2), then o1.hashCode() == o2.hashCode()should always be true.
    If o1.hashCode() == o2.hashCode is true, it doesn’t mean that o1.equals(o2) will be true.

    If the class overrides equals() method, it should also override hashCode() method.
    The class should follow the rules associated with equals() and hashCode() for all instances. Please refer earlier
    question for these rules.
    If a class field is not used in equals(), you should not use it in hashCode() method.
    Best practice for user defined key class is to make it immutable, so that hashCode() value can be cached for fast
    performance. Also immutable classes make sure that hashCode() and equals() will not change in future that will
    solve any issue with mutability.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GROOVY

== means equals on all types. In Java there's a wierd part of the syntax where == means
equality for primitive types and == means identity for objects.
Since we're using autoboxing this would be very confusing for Java developers
(since x == 5 would be mostly false if x was 5  . So for simplicity == means equals()
in Groovy. If you really need the identity, you can use the method "is" like foo.is(bar).
This does not work on null, but you can still use == here: foo==null.

declaring array
int[] a = [1,2,3]

You may use usual for.
for (int i=0; i < len; i++) {...}
But you can use
for (i in 0..len-1) {...}
or
for (i in 0..<len) {...}
or
len.times {...}

Semicolons are optional.
Use them if you like (though you must use them to put several statements on one line).

The return keyword is optional.

You can use the this keyword inside static methods (which refers to this class).

Methods and classes are public by default.

Inner (non-static nested) classes are not supported.
In most cases you can use closures instead, e.g. to implement interfaces.
Static nested classes are supported.

The throws clause in a method signature is not checked by the Groovy compiler,
because there is no difference between checked and unchecked exceptions.

You will not get compile errors like you would in Java for using undefined members
or passing arguments of the wrong type.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Javascript

Оператор идентичности “===” ведёт себя так же, как и оператор равенства “==”, за исключением того, что он не выполняет
преобразование типов. Если 2 значения имеют разный тип, оператор === сразу возвращает “false”, и в этом случае он будет
работать действительно быстрее. Во всех других случаях производительность будет одинаковая.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

JQUERY

Global variables - they a available to window object.
If we want that function execute while page loads we have to
wrap it in '( )' (pars).
You may use custom attribute in html. it should start with
'data-'. Then we may use this value. In jquery - with .data( method.
We may ignore 'data-' in parantheties.
siblings('button') - we get all the buttons that are on the same level.

.end() - we use this method if we want to go back on 1 level in the chain of
objects.


The better way - to use "on" method with ('click') param (for example). Because
eventually 'on' method is called by jQuery. The same for bind method.

When we use click we add eventHandler to all objects of the dom. The best way -
to use live method if we want to clone element (appendTo). It only checks that
'h2' element is clicked (if live('h2')) and then copies this element to dom.
In this way eventHandler - the part of the document (not h2).

If you work with element you use after - to append after. If you create the element-
use insertAfter() method.


if we use function name with '()' then function will be called emmidietly.
Otherwise, it will not.

EveryThing in javascript is an object - even functions. They have fields and
methods.

We may use ~~true to return 1... ~~false - to return 0


all methods - load, getJSON, get, post - eventually call JQUERY.ajax().

serialize method helps us to form name-value pairs from form inputs!!!


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AJAX

Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) is the art of exchanging data with a server,
and updating parts of a web page – without reloading the whole webpage.
JavaScript and the XMLHttpRequest object provide a method for exchanging data
asynchronously between browser and server to avoid full page reloads.
The core of AJAX is the XMLHttpRequest object (available in client side scripting
languages like javascript). The XMLHttpRequest object is used to exchange data with
a server behind the scenes.
Requests will only succeed if they are made to the same server that served the
original web page

To send request and set request attributes, XMLHttpRequest object has some methods:
- a) open(method, url, isAsync, userName, password)
- b) setRequestHeader(name, value)
Upon successful initialization of a request, the setRequestHeader method of the
XMLHttpRequest object can be invoked to send HTTP headers with the request.
- c) send(payload)
  To send an HTTP request, the send method of the XMLHttpRequest must be invoked.
  This method accepts a single parameter containing the content to be sent with
  the request.
  The content is necessary in POST requests. For GET methods, imply pass null
  as parameter.

- 4) abort(). The abort method ensures that the callback method does not get
invoked in an asynchronous request.

onreadystatechange is a event listener registered with XMLHttpRequest request.
onreadystatechange stores a function that will process the response returned
from the server. It will be called for all important events in request’s life cycle.
Every time the step is completed in request processing, the value of readyState will
be changed and set to some other value. Lets have a look at possible values:

0 : request not initialized
1 : server connection established
2 : request received
3 : processing request
4 : request finished and response is ready to be handled


To get the response from a server, responseText or responseXML property of
the XMLHttpRequest object is used

responseText : Get the response from server as a string
responseXML : Get the response from server as XML


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



GIT

GIT - это сложная распределенная система контроля версий. ГИТ работает с состояниями
файлов, а не с самими файлами.

сначала apt-get install git и
установка имени и почты

git config --global user.name dmitrybilyk
git config --global user.email dmitry.bilyk@gmail.com

create new repository in the dir you are in at the moment
git init (.git dir is created)

to add file (files) to repository
git add hello.html

to commit to repository
git commit -m "First commit"

to check the current status of repository
git status

to add changes to git repository
git add

to discard (revert) changes
git checkout

to index (add) changes (to stage...)
git add hello.html

to unstage (remove indexed changes from git)
git reset

to see history
git log

to see history in one row
git log --pretty=oneline

some variants:
git log --pretty=oneline --max-count=2
git log --pretty=oneline --since='5 minutes ago'
git log --pretty=oneline --until='5 minutes ago'
git log --pretty=oneline --author='dmitrybilyk'
git log --pretty=oneline --all

to get old versions of files
git checkout <hash>
then cat hello.html to see the old content

git checkout master - to go gack to newest changes in master branch


to create tag of the first version
git tag v1

to go to the tag before current
git checkout v1^


to see tags in the log
git hist master -all

to revert unindexed (no add was triggered yet) changes
git checkout hello.html

to revert indexed changes
git reset HEAD hello.html (and we also have to call checkout in order to remove changes in
file)

to revert last commit
git revert HEAD

to remove tag oops from repository
git tag -d oops

to change existed commit (in order not to add new)
git commit --amend -m "author/email"

to move file to lib folder
git mv hello.html lib



to create a branch with the name 'style'
git checkout -b style   where -b - shortcat for branch...

git checkout master - go to master branch

git merger master - merge from master to style branch

to know the names of removed repositories
git remote

show local branches
git branch

show all remote branches
git branch -a

to get new commits but without affecting of changed files - use fetch
to merger changes fils - use merge.
But 'pull' command does these two thins togather!

to ignore file or path from to be staged
git update-index --assume-unchanged <file>

git rm --cached file - remove file from git

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SPRING TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT


http://www.byteslounge.com/tutorials/spring-transaction-propagation-tutorial

Spring transaction propagation strategies:

1. Required.
If there is already existed transaction, it will be used, otherwise - new will be created.
If we have several methods all marked with Required - we will have a single physical
transaction. So, if something wrong in inner bean - the outer bean will always rollback.

Note: The only exceptions that set a transaction to rollback state by default are the
unchecked exceptions (like RuntimeException). If you want checked exceptions to also set
transactions to rollback you must configure them to do so

2. REQUIRES_NEW behavior means that a new physical transaction will always be created
by the container. In other words the inner transaction may commit or rollback independently
of the outer transaction, i.e. the outer transaction will not be affected by the inner
transaction result: they will run in distinct physical transactions.

3. NESTED behavior. With savepoints. Used in jdbc.

4. MANDATORY behavior
 The MANDATORY behavior states that an existing opened transaction must already exist.
 If not an exception will be thrown by the container.

5. NOT_SUPPORTED behavior
The NOT_SUPPORTED behavior will execute outside of the scope of any transaction.
If an opened transaction already exists it will be paused.

6. SUPPORTS behavior
The SUPPORTS behavior will execute in the scope of a transaction if an opened transaction
already exists. If there isn't an already opened transaction the method will execute
anyway but in a non-transactional way.




ACID

Isolation level defines how the changes made to some data repository by one
transaction affect other simultaneous concurrent transactions, and also how
and when that changed data becomes available to other transactions.


Isolatoin levels:

READ_UNCOMMITTED isolation level states that a transaction may read data that
is still uncommitted by other transactions.
READ_COMMITTED isolation level states that a transaction can't read data that
is not yet committed by other transactions. This means that the dirty read is
no longer an issue. But we can have non-repeatable read - it when transaction A
begins to read, then transaction B changes and commits. And then transaction A
tries to commit it's changes. But it has not actual data.
REPEATABLE_READ
DEFAULT - default isolation level of the database we work with at the moment.


  	              dirty reads 	non-repeatable reads 	phantom reads
READ_UNCOMMITTED 	yes 	        yes 	                yes
READ_COMMITTED 	    no 	            yes 	                yes
REPEATABLE_READ 	no 	            no 	                    yes
SERIALIZABLE 	    no 	            no 	                    no





ACID is the acronym for the four properties guaranteed by transactions: atomicity,
consistency, isolation, and durability.

Atomicity – means a transaction must execute completely or not at all. This means
atomicity guaranteed that operations with in a transaction undergo an all-or-nothing
paradigm – either all the database updates are performed , or nothing happens is a n
error occurs at any time

Consistency – is a transactional characteristic that must be enforced by both the
transactional system and the application developer. Consistency guarantees that a
transaction leaves the system’s state to be consistent after a transaction completes.
Consistency refers to the integrity of the underlying data store. Atomicity helps
enforce the system always appears to be consistent.

Isolated – makes a transaction to execute without interference from another process
or transactions. Isolation protects concurrently executing transactions from seeing
each others incomplete results. Isolation allows multiple transactions to read or
write to a database without knowing about each other because each transaction is
isolated from each others.

Durability – means that all the data changes made during the course of a transaction
must be written to some type of physical storage before the transaction is
successfully completed.



//todo
spring jpa transactions
http://www.byteslounge.com/tutorials/spring-change-transaction-isolation-level-example


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PERSIST VS MERGE

THe difference is in what you're doing with the object after saving it to the database.
Persist takes an entity instance, adds it to the context and makes that instance managed (ie future updates to the entity
will be tracked)
Merge creates a new instance of your entity, copies the state from the supplied entity, and makes the new copy managed.
The instance you pass in will not be managed (any changes you make will not be part of the transaction - unless you call merge again).


HIBERNATE INHERITANCE STRATEGIES

Single table:

- Data not normalized;
- Constraints not null could not be applied;
- We use simple select using discriminator;
- To insert or update we use single insert or update;

Table per subclass class (joined strategy):

- Normalized;
- Not null could be applied;
- Joins among table. For example fetching FourWheeler will require a join on FourWheeler and Vehicle table.
If all user needs to be fetched than it will put a join for all three tables

Table per each concrete class:
- One table for each concrete class.
- Not maintainable.
- Change in base class leads to changes in all tables of derived class.
- to retrieve data we use Separate Select or Union Select.
- One insert or update for each subclass.




----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SPRING SECURITY

Spring Security is a customizable authentication and access service
framework for server side Java-based enterprise software applications.
two major areas of application security are “authentication” and
“authorization” (or “access-control”). These are the two main areas
that Spring Security targets.

1. “Authentication” is the process of establishing a principal
is who they claim to be (a “principal” generally means a user,
device or some other system which can perform an action in your
application).

2. “Authorization” refers to the process of deciding whether a principal
is allowed to perform an action within your application.

There are three main areas of interest in respect of authorization,
these being authorizing web requests, authorizing whether methods
can be invoked, and authorizing access to individual domain object
instances.


Following are the some of the important facilities that Spring Security
Framework provides to it’s users:

    User authentication and authorization.
    Role based authorization control.
    Easy to configure with database based authentication and authorization.
    Encrypted password.
    Form authentication.
    File bases user authentication and authorization.

Spring security take care about all incoming HTTP requests via servlet
filters, and implements "user defined" security checking


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------










