show databases;

show tables;

create schema testsql;

use testsql;

select count(*) from Book;

select * from Book;


desc Book;

CREATE UNIQUE INDEX name_index ON Book ( name);
CREATE INDEX name_index ON Book ( name);

ALTER TABLE Book DROP INDEX name_index;

SHOW INDEX FROM Book;

select * from Book where name='name1443';


http://www.sql-ex.ru/register.php
dmitrybilyk 035645


http://www.devmanuals.com/tutorials/java/servlet/CreateIndex.html


Indexes are special tables that, unlike normal data tables, are kept in a specific order.
Instead of containing all of the data about an entity, however, an index contains only
the column (or columns) used to locate rows in the data table, along with information
describing where the rows are physically located. Therefore, the role of indexes is to
facilitate the retrieval of a subset of a table's rows and columns without the need to
inspect every row in the table.

Indexes are used to improve search of row with some condition. The database creates
one index by default - for primary key.

Index could be unique or not unique. We may use indexes for uniqueness validation
by single field or by several fields. These indexes are balanced-tree indexes by default.
Whereas B-tree indexes are great at handling columns that contain many different values,
such as a customer's first/last names, they can become unwieldy when built on a column
that allows only a small number of values. But if you want to improve performance of
searching in tables with low cardinality (many similar rows), Oracle gives you an opo-
tunity to use bitmap indexes.

In situations when you need to search many text data you have to use full-text index.

Некластерные индексы создаются СУБД по умолчанию. Данные физически расположены в
произвольном порядке, но логически упорядочены согласно индексу. Такой тип индексов
подходит для таблиц, где часто изменяются значения.

При кластерном индексировании данные физически упорядочены, что серьезно повышает
скорость выборок данных (но только в случае последовательного доступа к данным).
Для одной таблицы может быть создан только один кластерный индекс.

